<h2>Conclusions</h2>
		<p>One view of standards is that they create a minimum level of compliance that allows interoperability while permiting necessary variation to take place. A good example of this is the light bulb: with a standard base for the light bulb we have been able to move from incandescent to fluorescent and now to LED bulbs, all the time keeping our same lighting fixtures. </p>
    <p>The stated goals of FRBR are to create a conceptual model that will make cataloging more efficient, will further the development of a universal bibliography by providing a globally agreed model of bibliographic data, and will respond to user needs. Implicitly the goal of FRBR is to create consensus around a single bibliographic model; this consensus is considered key for the sharing of bibliographic data on a wide scale. The model is also intended to be the basis of cataloging rules that will find acceptance internationally. An international view of bibliographic description has been an IFLA activity since ?? with the creation of the International Standard Bibliographic Description (ISBD) and the International Cataloging Principles.</p>
    <p>The difference between FRBR and the light bulb example, however, is that FRBR does not separate the primary functionality from the area where variation and future innovation can take place. In the present it is indeniable that the characteristics of libraries and their users have such a wide range of functions and needs that no one solution could possibly serve all. We see this in the different approaches between books and nonbooks and the different interpretations of fundamental concepts. Standardization on a single over-arching bibliographic model is not reasonable. Instead, we should ask: what are the minimum necessary points of compliance that will make interoperability possible, while allowing libraries to serve the specific needs of their users? Without a doubt, interoperability will take place on the information and intelligence carried in the description. What needs to be allowed to vary is the technology that carries that message, since it is the volatility of technology that we must be able to accept in the list disruptive way possible.</p>
    <p>The FRBR model may have served to aid the task force in organizing their thoughts on the fundamental characteristics of bibliographic description. These characteristics are described as those necessary to fulfill the user tasks of find, identify, select and obtain. These are the meaningful information units around which interoperability will take place. The data itself is the payload; the structures that carry the information are mere vehicles and must be allowed to vary as information technology changes over time. </p>
    <p>There is nothing inherent in the exchange of bibliographic data that would require that the resulting record or graph adhere to the FRBR entity structure. If the FRBR conceptual model is followed, the attributes as defined there have the same meaning regardless of the structures in which they are embedded. In fact, making the structure mandatory already conflicts with a number of uses and users, and in addition limits FRBR to a data model that had its heyday around 1990. The end result would be to prevent adoption by a large, perhaps a majority, segment of the communities that produce and consume bibliographic data. This leads to the conclusion that attempts to use the FRBR entity-relation structure as a control mechanism will only isolate those who adhere.</p>
<p>In the end, the best option seems to be to create a set of well-defined attributes for bibliographic description and allow each community to create its own groupings. In fact, one could even allow individual users to develop a view that serves their needs using the attributes that best express that view. A scholar involved in the particulars of ancient languages would define a different view from the college student fulfilling an assignment. A media archivist would have greater enphasis on the technical details of recording and storage formats than would a &quot;mere&quot; film buff, whose interest would be primarily in different versions of the content. What matters is not how people would divide the bibliographic universe, but that the data be available so that they can represent their view.</p>